All right I've got two really important setups here for you to understand.
And if you can really grasp this video here in the different concepts then you've understood kind of
the physics behind inserting capacitors inside parallel plates.
OK.
So Case Number One is I have two parallel plates and it's connected to a battery.
I'm going to get a voltage between those plates POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE CHARGE.
Same thing for the beginning of Case number two.
Now for case number one over here what I'm going to do is I'm first going to disconnect the battery.
Step 1 after their battery is disconnected I am going to insert a dielectric BETWEEN THE PLATES AND
THEN I want us to look at what happens to these various quantities what happens to the capacitance.
What happens to the charge.
What happens to the voltage between the plates the electric field and the potential energy stored in
this capacitor.
All right.
For case number two is going to be a little bit different so you charge up the plates.
And now I'm going to keep the battery connected and while it's connected I'm going to insert a dielectric.
Again let's look through all of these five different variables and see what happens to each one.
Again the dielectric that I'm inserting here is going to be characterized with a little bit too wide.
It's going to be characterized with a dielectric constant K which is bigger than one.
OK.
So let's see what happens to all these five variables for these two different ways of inserting a dielectric
inside a capacitor.
Let's look at Case Number One first just right.
Number one here.
So what happens to the capacitance.
So imagine here we have a capacitance which is equal to c 0 for the first one.
So what happened to the capacitance.
Well the new capacitance would be equal to whatever the dielectric constant is.
So it would be k multiplied by c 0.
So it would increase by a factor of K.
OK.
So this guy he would go up and let me just write it by K by a factor of k.
All right what happens to the charge on the plates.
Again I've disconnected the battery and before that I had a certain amount of charge on the plates.
So what happens now.
A insert a dielectric do I change.
Dutch charge on the plates while the charge is stuck and this here is an insulating material.
So there is really nowhere for the charge to go.
So really the charge has to remain the same.
OK.
You have no choice but the capacitance always increases.
Remember we said that.
So what about the voltage.
Well now what I suggest you do is you go back to our equations.
We had an equation for relating charged a voltage right.
It looked like this.
That was our famous capacitor equation except now what do we have.
We have that the dielectric constant is equal to C subscript k.
So think about rewriting this in terms of the voltage it's the charge divided by the capacitance.
So what do we have now for case number one.
We have that the charge stayed the same but the capacitance went up.
So if I divide by a bigger number guess what's going to happen to the voltage.
The voltage here is going to go down by a factor of k.
Now if we think about our relationship now between voltage and electric field that's the next equation.
The electric field was defined again just the magnitude as the change of voltage divided by the change
in distance and what just happened I haven't changed the distance right.
The distance between the plates is going to be the same but my overall voltage went down.
So guess what.
The electric field has to go down by K and the last one again I would suggest using one of our equations
for potential energy.
One equation was Q V What did we just say we said the charge stayed the same because it had nowhere
to go and the voltage went down by a factor of k.
So what happens to the potential energy the potential energy must also go down by a factor of K.
OK so make sure we understand this first step by inserting a dielectric inside parallel plates.
OK.
So what happens in case number two again you keep the battery connected and then you insert the dielectric
inside.
So here is case number two.
The first thing is the capacitance while capacitance always goes up.
It doesn't matter when you put it in.
So if this is a no K the dielectric constant the new capacitance is going to be a k times the original
one when there was airfields on both of these cases.
It's going to go up by a factor of k all right.
What else happens over here what about the charge in the voltage.
Again it's connected to a battery and if the battery voltage is v guess what the voltage here has the
stay the same the voltage V
again it must remain the same because it's connected to a battery with the voltage V.
So that's kind of the difference over here between this case in that case.
So again let me go to the center line here.
Let's just write same All right what about the charge.
Again think about our equation now.
We have that the charge is the capacitance multiplied by the voltage.
So if voltage stays the same and the capacitance goes up well what happens to the charge the charge
has to also increase by a factor of K
so kind of different over here.
Again you're gonna have more charge because you have a bigger capacitance capacitance is the ability
of an object a whole charge.
If that goes up and I have a power supply that could keep doing work it's going to keep increasing it.
All right what about the electric field.
All right.
So the electric field you've got to think about it here for a minute.
Our electric field again if I go back to my equation describing the magnitude the voltage divided by
the distance again I mean just read it as V divided by the distance between the plates.
What happens to the voltage we just said the voltage stays the same.
I haven't changed the distance between the plates so I guess what's going to happen right here.
Same.
All right.
And the last one is the electrical potential energy again use one of my equations I'll use this one.
We said that the charge goes up by a factor of k.
This guy goes up.
This guy here stays the same.
So what's going to happen to the potential energy potential energy in this case here has to go up by
a factor of K okay.
So we have different scenarios depending on when you insert that dielectric inside.